#summary Installation instructions Windows operating systems.
= Introduction =

There are packages for windows available from the [http://code.google.com/p/fgcomgui/downloads/list downloads] tab. The packages use the *_fgcomgui-win32-bundle-mmddyear.zip_* naming scheme, mmddyear being the date of the release. These packages contain everything needed for using fgcom on a windows os.


= Installation =

Currently fgcomgui does not have an installer, but comes as a single zip archive containing all its files in a single directory. Installation is as simple as downloading the newest windows bundle from the [http://code.google.com/p/fgcomgui/downloads/list downloads] tab, and extracting it to a location of your choosing. You can then run the FGComGui.exe in the newly extracted folder to start fgcomgui.

Basic installation steps:
   # Download the newest win32 bundle from [http://code.google.com/p/fgcomgui/downloads/list downloads] tab
   # Extract the bundle to a location of your choosing. See extraction notes below.
   # You should have a new folder named similar to the zip in the location you extracted to.
   # Run the FGComGui.exe in this folder to start fgcomgui.
   # Create a shortcut on your desktop by either holding Alt and dragging FGComGui.exe to the desktop, or by right clicking the exe, creating shortcut, and moving it to the desktop.

`*` _The first time running fgcomgui, you may get a popup asking if your sure you wish to run the exe, just click yes, fgcomgui is perfectly safe._

= Extraction Notes =
`*`_These instructions are based off standard features of Windows XP, and may not be exactly the same on a different Windows os_

`*` _If you have other archiving software installed, such as winzip, then it may override Windows standard behavior for interacting with zip archives. Consult the manual for your archiving software if these instructions don't work for you.

`*` _For simplicity it is assumed that the fgcomgui bundle is downloaded and extracted to the desktop._


Right click the *fgcomgui-win32-bundle-mmddyear.zip* that you have downloaded, and select _Explore_. You should see a folder *fgcomgui-win32-bundle-mmddyear* containing all the fgcomgui files. Simple drag this folder onto your desktop to extract it. A dialog may appear asking if your sure, just select yes.

Alternatively you can right click the downloaded *fgcomgui-win32-bundle-mmddyear.zip* you downloaded and select _Extract All..._, in which case a wizard will appear to aid in the extraction process. Clicking next in the wizard will advance to a page asking for folder to extract files to. Click the _Browse_ button, select your desktop, and then press next. You can close the wizard after files finish extracting.

After extracting using one of the methods above, you should have a *fgcomgui-win32-bundle-mmddyear* folder on your desktop containing all of the fgcomgui files. You may now refer to steps 4 and 5 of the Installation section for instructions how to run, and how to create a shortcut to fgcomgui on your desktop.